---
layout: post
title: CAPTCHAs for Assamese OCR
date: 2023-09-21
categories: [Ideas]
tags: [Thoughts]
---
The CAPTCHAs are well known to us all. It stands for "Completely Automated Public Turing Test to tell Computers and Humans Apart".
I'd share my idea in a very short way. I'll be generalizing and oversimplifying things for this purpose. 
<br/>
As OCR is based on images containing texts and conversion of them to selectable and editable text, I am considering only the Text CAPTCHAs here.<br/>

Text CAPTCHAs work like this: The computers know a part of the problem to be solved and the rest is unknown to it. When we enter the missing part of the text the computers know the complete puzzle and it allows us to enter the webpage/site as it knows that only a human can solve the CAPTCHAs, not the computers. 
<br/>
(So, the computers gets trained on every word we enter to solve the CAPTCHAs and as a consequence the CAPTCHAs are getting harder and harder nowadays because the easy and common words/letters/numbers are known to the computers already. Hence, we see reCAPTCHAs intsead of CAPTCHAs on many websites which are the improved versions of the CAPTCHAs, mostly relying on images.)
<br/><br/>Here is what I suggest: The websites designed specially for the Assamese people might contain CAPTCHAs based on Assamese words, leters, and phrases. By doing so, we can train the OCR engines/models. It would be like crowdsourcing, people will solve the CAPTCHAs and train the OCR engines/models at the same time. I know it would be very hard to implement due to many reasons but I still hope that someday it will happen. That's it.<br/><br/>
P.S: When I last checked in 2020, there was a GitHub repo by IITG for the purpose of Assamese OCR but I don't know whether it is currently being maintained or not. I'm too lazy to look it up now.
