---
layout: post
title: How I started to code, and how it's going.
date: 2023-02-12
categories: [Random]
tags: [Thoughts]
---

In 2017, I started using Google's Blogger. At first, I used their default templates but one day I saw the option to edit HTML on the settings. Out of curiosity I cliked on that button and strange lines of code appeared before me and I was just amazed by them.<br>
The codes were in xml format, and I did not know anything about anything at all. But I was good at using MS-Word so I first tried to Find and Replace the Texts on the blogger templates and I changed the name of the Templates (and thus, violated some copyrights, by mistake).<br>
It turned into a fun thing. I messed up sometimes and that led me to 404 pages sometimes. I saw that different themes and templates have different 404 pages, so, I tried to create some of my own.<br>
I had no knowledge of SO at that point, I just copy-pasted the codes in google's search bar and I got to know about HTML, CSS, JS.  Then I searched for these o the internet, which led mme to CodePen, StackOverflow, and GitHub.<br>
By 2018, I was designing blogs with custom 404 pages by trial and error methods.<br>
But, coding was so tough for me to develop a good website. I used sites like WordPress, Yola, Wix etc to create free sites and wished my friends on their birthdays.<br>
Biz.nf helped me to get to know about the server-side opertaions, and I created some free websites, and also got to use phpMyAdmin. I created on such website for alerts on free slots of Co-WIN using Co-WIN's free publiccapi.<br>
I created a farewell site for our graduation batch, a site for B.Ed. merit lists, created my own static website (on gh-pages), and a blog, another blog and some other things.<br>
In 2020, I used gemini to create a capsule, I discovered the fediverse, matrix, irc, and the activitypub etc.<br>
Through Inspecting Elements on the browsers, I discoverd some fun things. Also, inspecting the networks and the requests made me unlock a whole new level of the deep web. I could know details of every flipkart order and customers on the tracking system of ekart. The json files included names, addresses, emails, and mobile numbers of the flipkart customers. May be 10 lines of python code would have been enough to store data of every flipkart orders placed till that date. I just reported it to them, and DID NOT DOWNLOAD or SCRAPED THE DATA. They fixed it after that.<br>
There are many other things that I can not share about here, that invloves huge leak of personal informations and documents. These made me think about my digital footprint and internet privacy.<br>
Anyway, I learned HTML, CSS, JS, Python, yaml, markdown etc.<br>
I did a project on AR and It was good, at least to myself.<br>
And now I know almost anything that ChatGPT knows, because I may not be intelligent, but I can assure you that I am damn smart.<br>
